README.md, before:

# clo4's Minecraft datapacks

Collection of all of my datapacks. These are typically focused on SMP server
administration because that's what I find myself needing more tooling for.

Keeping everything in the same repository makes it easier to build stuff fast!

## Table of Contents

- [clo4's Minecraft datapacks](#clo4s-minecraft-datapacks)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Datapacks](#datapacks)
    - [Pause Day Cycle](#pause-day-cycle)
    - [Chickenfix](#chickenfix)
    - [Detect AFK Players](#detect-afk-players)
      - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [AFK Sleep](#afk-sleep)
    - [AFK Message](#afk-message)
    - [AFK Dim Names](#afk-dim-names)
    - [No Free Deaths](#no-free-deaths)
    - [Unreleased Data Packs](#unreleased-data-packs)
      - [No Sprint](#no-sprint)
      - [No Sprint Swimming](#no-sprint-swimming)
      - [No Sleep](#no-sleep)
      - [AFK Immunity](#afk-immunity)
      - [AFK Kick](#afk-kick)
  - [Nix Build System](#nix-build-system)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Philosophy](#philosophy)

## Datapacks

### Pause Day Cycle

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/pause-day-cycle)

A very lightweight datapack that disables `doDaylightCycle` when nobody is
online or everyone online is tagged as `afk` (see #detect-afk-players). It's
best suited for small to medium sized servers where there are large stretches of
time that nobody will be online, or long periods where players may be AFK (eg.
at a mob grinder overnight). This is to prevent the local difficulty and day
count from becoming excessive and not representative of the amount of time that
players have actually played on the server.

The following gamerules are affected:

- `doDaylightCycle`
- `doWeatherCycle`

The gamerule `mobSpawning` is unaffected to allow mob grinders and automatic
farms to function with nobody present or an AFK player loading the chunk.

You can hook into the pause and resume events using the `pause_day_cycle:pause`
and `pause_day_cycle:resume` function tags, which will be called whenever the
day cycle pauses or resumes.

### Chickenfix

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/chickenfix)

A simple but effective brute force fix to chickens suffocating in walls when
they grow up in a cramped, inhumane chicken farm.

It works by teleporting chickens to the center of the block they're in, on the
tick where they grow into an adult. This prevents them from being shoved into a
wall and suffocating. This is only done if the chicken is within five blocks of
any entity named exactly `chickenfix`, to prevent normal (humane) chicken farms
from being broken by the same logic that fixes the inhumane ones.

### Detect AFK Players

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/detect-afk)

A simple way to detect AFK players for vanilla or modded servers, which allows
you to build additional social signalling mechanics and improve the experience
for all players.

Players are marked as AFK (`afk`) after 3 minutes of without moving the mouse.

The base **afk** data pack implements the AFK detection behavior, acting as a
library for other data packs. Players are treated as AFK after not sending a
directional input for more than 3 minutes (180 seconds, 3600 game ticks).

This datapack also gives players the `afk` tag when they become AFK, and removes
it when they return. This allows you to detect AFK players without having to
install any other datapacks, making it very easy to integrate with.

There is a README included in the pack and viewable in the [afk](afk) directory
with further instructions for configuration, buildng add-on packs, and
implementation details.

### AFK Sleep

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-sleep)

Changes the `playersSleepingPercentage` to allow sleeping while there are AFK
players on the server.

When the datapack is initially installed, the `playersSleepingPercentage` is
stored and used as _the percentage of players that aren't AFK_ that need to
sleep for a night to pass.

| Players online | Players not AFK | Initial playersSleepingPercentage | Players required to pass a night |
| -------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| 3              | 3               | 100%                              | 3                                |
| 3              | 2               | 100%                              | 2                                |
| 3              | 2               | 50%                               | 1                                |

### AFK Message

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-message)

Using this datapack will announce to all players on the server when someone
becomes AFK or returns to the game.

### AFK Dim Names

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-dim-names)

Using this datapack colors the names of AFK players gray and moves them to the
bottom of the player list.

### No Free Deaths

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-dim-names)

Adds consequences to death when playing with `keepInventory`. By adding
carefully thought out penalties, players don't abuse death as a free
teleportation tool and hunger reset.

**Core features**

- Can be disabled per player
- Curse of Vanishing works as expected (requires Minecraft 1.20.5+)
- Players respawn with a hunger penalty
- Lose levels on death like in vanilla
- Difficulty based XP-loss
  - Easy: 50%, Normal: 75%, Hard: 100%

Players can be opted out of the consequences if they prefer a more relaxed
gaming experience. Per-player opt-out means _everyone_ can play how they want
to.

```mcfunction
/execute as USERNAME run function no_free_deaths:cmd/opt_out
```

Every penalty can be toggled individually:

```mcfunction
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_drop_xp
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_curse_of_vanishing
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_respawn_hunger_penalty

# NOT ENABLED BY DEFAULT
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_respawn_health_penalty
```

The percentage of levels lost on death is set automatically when the data pack
is loaded and will not be changed unless it is manually updated. It's a bit
verbose, but can be changed to a custom amount e.g. `90` to lose 90% of levels.

```mcfunction
/scoreboard players set .drop_percentage no_free_deaths.drop_xp.settings [percent]
```

### Unreleased data packs

There are data packs in this repository that I haven't released. This is a list
of them, including the reasons they are not listed on Modrinth yet.

#### No Sprint

Disables sprinting. When players sprint, they become stuck in place.

There are a few ways to go about this, but disabling all movement is the most
consistent and least bad of the methods.

This isn't released yet because I haven't playtested it. Don't know if this is
fun yet.

#### No Sprint Swimming

Disables swimming (sprint-swimming). When players try to swim fast, they are
kicked out of fast swimming back to normal floating.

There isn't a way to control swimming speed the same way there is with ground
movement speed, so I had to use another method to disable the fast movement.

This isn't released for the same reason as No Sprint.

#### No Sleep

Disables sleeping.

When you disable sleeping, you also need to disable phantoms. When you disable
phantoms, you need to come up with a way to get phantom membrane. I haven't
solved the membrane in a way that's fun.

The best idea I've come up with is to spawn phantoms if a player drinks a potion
of weakness and tries to use a bed.

#### AFK Immunity

Disables all damage to AFK players.

The goal is to also disable all armor durability too, to prevent people or
entities from wearing down the armor. However, this presents a lot of edge
cases. Upon returning, the player could take their armor off before moving their
mouse, keeping their infinite durability armor. So, if you give it curse of
binding, they can't take it off, then you remove all curse of binding
enchantments from their armor. But, if the player already had CoB on a piece of
armor, now they can take that off too. This means you need to detect whether
each piece of armor already has CoB, store that in a scoreboard, and selectively
remove it based on that value. That's more effort than it's worth for me.

#### AFK Kick

Kicks players after they have been AFK for a configurable period of time.

This requires the function level to be set higher than I'm generally comfortable
recommending.

## Nix Build System

The build system is a reusable component built with Nix. You can use this
repository as an input to your own if you would like to use the same logic to
build. It would be relatively easy to extend to build a project using the Beet
toolchain, too.

Run this command to generate a flake with a single data pack in the repository
root.

```bash
nix flake init -t github:clo4/datapacks
```

Run this command to generate a flake with multiple data packs in subdirectories.

```bash
nix flake init -t github:clo4/datapacks#monorepo
```

If you're running into issues with the pack formats causing your build to fail,
make sure you have the latest version of this flake. It may be, at most, 6h15m
hours out of date.

```bash
nix flake update
```

## Contributing

The datapacks are built using Nix. You must have Nix installed if you want to
build locally. If you've never used it before, it's really not as scary as it
sounds - just [install Nix](https://install.determinate.systems/), and run
`nix build` to build all the datapacks, or to build an individual datapack, run
`nix build .#<name>` where `<name>` is something like `afk` or
`pause-day-cycle`. However, if you're on Windows, to use Nix you'll have to use
WSL, which can be a bit of a pain for doing stuff on your local Windows file
system too - I don't really have a good solution for you, but this project does
use GitHub Actions to build the project in CI and publishes an artifact from
that.

There's a shortcut for copying to a testing world too. Create a `.env` file in
the root of the repository, and export a variable named `DATAPACK_DIR` (a path
to a world's 'datapacks' directory). Then, you can either run the script using
`nix run .#`, or as `build-and-copy` in the dev shell. If you're using direnv
and have approved the .envrc, this script will already be available to you in
your environment. This script optionally takes the names of the data packs to
build. See the `--help` output for more information.

### Philosophy

I value composability over functionality, preferring to have less built in to
datapacks and allowing you to build the features you need on top of it. Each
piece of functionality can be small and performant, and they can be combined
together to create something more complicated without sacrificing on
maintainability or performance.

I only work on what I feel motivated to work on, because this isn't my job. I
just do it for fun and to make my own life easier. But if there's a feature that
you want added, you're welcome to create an issue for it and I'll take a look,
I'll build it if I think it's worth the time. Or you can contribute it yourself,
and we'll get it merged and released!

Commit message:

Expensive Boats: Add first version

README.md, after:

# clo4's Minecraft datapacks

Collection of all of my datapacks. These are typically focused on SMP server
administration because that's what I find myself needing more tooling for.

Keeping everything in the same repository makes it easier to build stuff fast!

## Table of Contents

- [clo4's Minecraft datapacks](#clo4s-minecraft-datapacks)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Datapacks](#datapacks)
    - [Pause Day Cycle](#pause-day-cycle)
    - [Chickenfix](#chickenfix)
    - [Detect AFK Players](#detect-afk-players)
      - [Documentation](#documentation)
    - [AFK Sleep](#afk-sleep)
    - [AFK Message](#afk-message)
    - [AFK Dim Names](#afk-dim-names)
    - [No Free Deaths](#no-free-deaths)
    - [Unreleased Data Packs](#unreleased-data-packs)
      - [No Sprint](#no-sprint)
      - [No Sprint Swimming](#no-sprint-swimming)
      - [No Sleep](#no-sleep)
      - [Expensive Boats](#expensive-boats)
      - [AFK Immunity](#afk-immunity)
      - [AFK Kick](#afk-kick)
  - [Nix Build System](#nix-build-system)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
    - [Philosophy](#philosophy)

## Datapacks

### Pause Day Cycle

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/pause-day-cycle)

A very lightweight datapack that disables `doDaylightCycle` when nobody is
online or everyone online is tagged as `afk` (see #detect-afk-players). It's
best suited for small to medium sized servers where there are large stretches of
time that nobody will be online, or long periods where players may be AFK (eg.
at a mob grinder overnight). This is to prevent the local difficulty and day
count from becoming excessive and not representative of the amount of time that
players have actually played on the server.

The following gamerules are affected:

- `doDaylightCycle`
- `doWeatherCycle`

The gamerule `mobSpawning` is unaffected to allow mob grinders and automatic
farms to function with nobody present or an AFK player loading the chunk.

You can hook into the pause and resume events using the `pause_day_cycle:pause`
and `pause_day_cycle:resume` function tags, which will be called whenever the
day cycle pauses or resumes.

### Chickenfix

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/chickenfix)

A simple but effective brute force fix to chickens suffocating in walls when
they grow up in a cramped, inhumane chicken farm.

It works by teleporting chickens to the center of the block they're in, on the
tick where they grow into an adult. This prevents them from being shoved into a
wall and suffocating. This is only done if the chicken is within five blocks of
any entity named exactly `chickenfix`, to prevent normal (humane) chicken farms
from being broken by the same logic that fixes the inhumane ones.

### Detect AFK Players

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/detect-afk)

A simple way to detect AFK players for vanilla or modded servers, which allows
you to build additional social signalling mechanics and improve the experience
for all players.

Players are marked as AFK (`afk`) after 3 minutes of without moving the mouse.

The base **afk** data pack implements the AFK detection behavior, acting as a
library for other data packs. Players are treated as AFK after not sending a
directional input for more than 3 minutes (180 seconds, 3600 game ticks).

This datapack also gives players the `afk` tag when they become AFK, and removes
it when they return. This allows you to detect AFK players without having to
install any other datapacks, making it very easy to integrate with.

There is a README included in the pack and viewable in the [afk](afk) directory
with further instructions for configuration, buildng add-on packs, and
implementation details.

### AFK Sleep

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-sleep)

Changes the `playersSleepingPercentage` to allow sleeping while there are AFK
players on the server.

When the datapack is initially installed, the `playersSleepingPercentage` is
stored and used as _the percentage of players that aren't AFK_ that need to
sleep for a night to pass.

| Players online | Players not AFK | Initial playersSleepingPercentage | Players required to pass a night |
| -------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| 3              | 3               | 100%                              | 3                                |
| 3              | 2               | 100%                              | 2                                |
| 3              | 2               | 50%                               | 1                                |

### AFK Message

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-message)

Using this datapack will announce to all players on the server when someone
becomes AFK or returns to the game.

### AFK Dim Names

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-dim-names)

Using this datapack colors the names of AFK players gray and moves them to the
bottom of the player list.

### No Free Deaths

[View and download on Modrinth](https://modrinth.com/datapack/afk-dim-names)

Adds consequences to death when playing with `keepInventory`. By adding
carefully thought out penalties, players don't abuse death as a free
teleportation tool and hunger reset.

**Core features**

- Can be disabled per player
- Curse of Vanishing works as expected (requires Minecraft 1.20.5+)
- Players respawn with a hunger penalty
- Lose levels on death like in vanilla
- Difficulty based XP-loss
  - Easy: 50%, Normal: 75%, Hard: 100%

Players can be opted out of the consequences if they prefer a more relaxed
gaming experience. Per-player opt-out means _everyone_ can play how they want
to.

```mcfunction
/execute as USERNAME run function no_free_deaths:cmd/opt_out
```

Every penalty can be toggled individually:

```mcfunction
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_drop_xp
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_curse_of_vanishing
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_respawn_hunger_penalty

# NOT ENABLED BY DEFAULT
function no_free_deaths:cmd/toggle_respawn_health_penalty
```

The percentage of levels lost on death is set automatically when the data pack
is loaded and will not be changed unless it is manually updated. It's a bit
verbose, but can be changed to a custom amount e.g. `90` to lose 90% of levels.

```mcfunction
/scoreboard players set .drop_percentage no_free_deaths.drop_xp.settings [percent]
```

### Unreleased data packs

There are data packs in this repository that I haven't released. This is a list
of them, including the reasons they are not listed on Modrinth yet.

#### No Sprint

Disables sprinting. When players sprint, they become stuck in place.

There are a few ways to go about this, but disabling all movement is the most
consistent and least bad of the methods.

This isn't released yet because I haven't playtested it. Don't know if this is
fun yet.

#### No Sprint Swimming

Disables swimming (sprint-swimming). When players try to swim fast, they are
kicked out of fast swimming back to normal floating.

There isn't a way to control swimming speed the same way there is with ground
movement speed, so I had to use another method to disable the fast movement.

This isn't released for the same reason as No Sprint.

#### No Sleep

Disables sleeping.

When you disable sleeping, you also need to disable phantoms. When you disable
phantoms, you need to come up with a way to get phantom membrane. I haven't
solved the membrane in a way that's fun.

The best idea I've come up with is to spawn phantoms if a player drinks a potion
of weakness and tries to use a bed.

#### Expensive Boats

Makes boats cost a netherite ingot.

Boats allow you to move very, very fast. They allow players to cross vast
distances easily, stay safe from all harm, and they shrink the scope of the
world more than sprinting does.

Boats have great utility, though! And especially as a late game tool, for ice
road travel and connecting civilisations.

This data pack makes them a late-game tool by disallowing their crafting until
after the player has acquired netherite ingots.

Why netherite? It's like using lead for a keel! You have to have something
keeping the boat upright. (Let's just use our imaginations that they'd be big
enough to justify that, instead of being more like a canoe)

#### AFK Immunity

Disables all damage to AFK players.

The goal is to also disable all armor durability too, to prevent people or
entities from wearing down the armor. However, this presents a lot of edge
cases. Upon returning, the player could take their armor off before moving their
mouse, keeping their infinite durability armor. So, if you give it curse of
binding, they can't take it off, then you remove all curse of binding
enchantments from their armor. But, if the player already had CoB on a piece of
armor, now they can take that off too. This means you need to detect whether
each piece of armor already has CoB, store that in a scoreboard, and selectively
remove it based on that value. That's more effort than it's worth for me.

#### AFK Kick

Kicks players after they have been AFK for a configurable period of time.

This requires the function level to be set higher than I'm generally comfortable
recommending.

## Nix Build System

The build system is a reusable component built with Nix. You can use this
repository as an input to your own if you would like to use the same logic to
build. It would be relatively easy to extend to build a project using the Beet
toolchain, too.

Run this command to generate a flake with a single data pack in the repository
root.

```bash
nix flake init -t github:clo4/datapacks
```

Run this command to generate a flake with multiple data packs in subdirectories.

```bash
nix flake init -t github:clo4/datapacks#monorepo
```

If you're running into issues with the pack formats causing your build to fail,
make sure you have the latest version of this flake. It may be, at most, 6h15m
hours out of date.

```bash
nix flake update
```

## Contributing

The datapacks are built using Nix. You must have Nix installed if you want to
build locally. If you've never used it before, it's really not as scary as it
sounds - just [install Nix](https://install.determinate.systems/), and run
`nix build` to build all the datapacks, or to build an individual datapack, run
`nix build .#<name>` where `<name>` is something like `afk` or
`pause-day-cycle`. However, if you're on Windows, to use Nix you'll have to use
WSL, which can be a bit of a pain for doing stuff on your local Windows file
system too - I don't really have a good solution for you, but this project does
use GitHub Actions to build the project in CI and publishes an artifact from
that.

There's a shortcut for copying to a testing world too. Create a `.env` file in
the root of the repository, and export a variable named `DATAPACK_DIR` (a path
to a world's 'datapacks' directory). Then, you can either run the script using
`nix run .#`, or as `build-and-copy` in the dev shell. If you're using direnv
and have approved the .envrc, this script will already be available to you in
your environment. This script optionally takes the names of the data packs to
build. See the `--help` output for more information.

### Philosophy

I value composability over functionality, preferring to have less built in to
datapacks and allowing you to build the features you need on top of it. Each
piece of functionality can be small and performant, and they can be combined
together to create something more complicated without sacrificing on
maintainability or performance.

I only work on what I feel motivated to work on, because this isn't my job. I
just do it for fun and to make my own life easier. But if there's a feature that
you want added, you're welcome to create an issue for it and I'll take a look,
I'll build it if I think it's worth the time. Or you can contribute it yourself,
and we'll get it merged and released!
